    This directory contains the ASCII font and device tables and a
postprocessor for an APS-5 phototypesetter. The device independent troff uses
the information contained in these files, but instead of looking at the
ASCII files, troff reads an equivalent set of binary tables that are
produced by a program called 'makedev'.

    Since you need to be a little careful when you run makedev, we
have written a small shell program called 'maketables' that takes one
or more of the ASCII files as input, and then properly updates all the
required binary files. For example, to make a complete new set of
binary tables just type in the command,

                            maketables *

On the other hand if just a few font files have been changed, eg. R,
I, and PA, the command line,

                            maketables R I PA

will remake all the required binary files. In neither of the above
examples could you simply substitute makedev for maketables and have
things work properly. After you've run either maketables or makedev
the binary files are easy to find - their names all end in the suffix
'.out' or '.add'.  maketables uses the makedev defined by its shell
variable MAKEDEV.

The shell program 'maketables' is located in the parent of this directory.

N.B.  The contents of this directory (the ASCII font description
tables, the postprocessor daps, and the description table compiler
makedev) are all tailored for the particular font disk used in the
Murray Hill Computing Center.  Any installation with a different
APS font set will almost certainly have to hand-tune some of the
font description files and will possibly want to use the more general
makedev located in the parent of this directory.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Changes since the original release:


 1: The width of ru on the R, I, B, and S fonts is 12 units less than
    Autologic's specifications. This eliminates the dashed line problems
    we were having, provided only troff reads these tables.

 2: Added the en character to the I and B fonts so that font positions
    1, 2, and 3 would all be the same size. Told users on other systems
    to remove en from R since it's only used in our banners and that
    seemed to be a less error prone process.

 3: Added xe, xt, and xk to DESC, GB, and GR files.

 4: Set the character code for bs in the S font to 0 so that the old
    Bell System logo will be replaced by white space on the APS-5.

 5: Added the new ATT logo characters to DESC and the S font file.
    LH and LV are logos in horizontal and vertical configurations,
    respectively.

 6: Fixed (probably overdid) the ascender/descender stuff.

 7: Added the old Bell Logo to the DESC file and the S font as character
    LB.  Still have \(bs replaced by white space.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
