Compile (make) these programs in standalone mode (outside of MEX) and
when finished run the program "whichmex" will invoke the correct
version of MEX for your system configuration.

There is a Makefile here for building (compiling) the tutorial 
demonstration programs and the workshop programs.  The Makefile
will compile the programs in the directory src.  Then the executables 
will be placed into two directories, online and workshop.  The 
online directory will be for the Graphics Labs programs.  The
workshop directory will be for the workshop programs.  If needed,
the online and workshop directories will be created.

Salespeople who wish to use the Graphics Labs only for demonstration
purposes will not have access to the workshop directory.

Here are a list of Makefile commands and what they do:
	make clean -- goes through entire tree (starting at src) and
removes executables.  Has no effect on directories online and workshop.
	make neat -- similar to make clean.  Goes through entire src
tree and removes object files, leftover debris from editing, but not
any executables.
	make install -- erases contents of online and workshop directories.
Goes through and compiles entire src tree and creates all programs for
online and workshop directories.  Does not use floating point accelerator.
	make all -- same as install.
	make float -- same as install, but for systems with floating 
point accelerator.
	make sales -- install only the online tree.  This make switch
is for salespeople, who won't utilize the workshop programs.

Compilation instructions for different audiences:

	for a person who wants all the programs in the tutorial, but
doesn't have a floating point accelerator:
		make clean
		make install
		make neat
	for a person who wants all the programs in the tutorial and
does have a floating point accelerator:
		make clean
		make float
		make neat
	for a salesperson who wants the Graphics Labs as demonstration
programs
		make clean
		make sales
		make neat

Once the compilation is complete run whichmex.

Mason Woo--May 26, 1986
Vince Uttley --  July 27, 1986

This is the Fortran version of the tutorial.  The sample code for 
explorations and workshops are written in Fortran.  The Graphics
Labs are written in C, but appear with Fortran syntax, when compiled.

The viewport Graphics Lab is heavily documented.  It is a template
for many of the other Graphics Labs

Mason Woo -- September 19, 1986
