These are the nfs test programs.  The directory basic contains the basic
tests of NFS operations.  General contains some random general filesystem
tests, and special contains tests that poke certain common problem areas.
'Testitems' is a list of NFS funtionality for reference. 'runtests',
'runbasic' and 'server' are shell scripts to run the tests.

When running any of the tests, you will want to save stdout and stderr
output in a file for future reference.

The basic tests should be passed completely before other tests are
attempted.  The basic test programs are all written so that a "-h"
option will make them print a usage line, a "-t" option will print a
running time for the test, and a "-f" option will set parameters for a
quick functional test.  With no option flag, the tests run like "-t",
but with no timing.  The runtests script in the basic directory is set
up to call each test with the argument that it is called with.
runtests in this directory calls basic/runtests with the -t argument.
You will probably want to run 'runbasic' before 'runtests' as this uses
the -f option.  [Note that not all os's support symlink and readlink.
If the errno EOPNOTSUPP is returned during test8, the test will be
counted as passing.  For clients not supporting S_IFLNK, the test will
not be attempted.]

In the basic directory, the tests are set up to run in directory
'/client/testmount/nfstestdir'.  The intent is to mount the server
under test on /client/testmount.  This can be changed at compile time
if desired by changing the TESTDIR define in tests.h and defs.csh to
some other directory.  The tests also believe the environment variable
NFSTESTDIR if it is set.  [runtests sets the environment.]

Note that basic test test2 is a csh script.  You may need to check this
or convert it to a Bourne shell script if necessary.


To run the whole series of tests type "runtests" in this directory.
("runbasic" can be used first to check basic test functionality; it
behaves similarly to "runtests.")  To run one of the sets of tests, cd
to the basic, general, or special directory and run "runtests".   The
master 'runtests' in this directory is set up to use the NFSTESTDIR
environment variable.  It defaults to /client/testmount/nfstestdir, but
can be overridden with a command line argument.  Runtests will cause
the basic tests to be run in place with the test directory NFSTESTDIR
used.  The general and special tests will then be copied over to the
test directory and executed there.

Two special targets are included in the makefiles: copy and dist.
Copy will cause the compiled tests to be copied to the DESTDIR.
Dist will copy the test sources to DESTDIR.  DESTDIR must be specified
on the make command line when making either of these targets.

To build the test programs for your machine just type "make" in this directory.
Please report any portability problems to Mark Stein at Sun Microsystems
(sun!mstein or mstein@sun.com).  Please include any fixes you make.

Programs in 'tools' are provided for your use as you see fit.  Please
feel free to add to this (or any other) directory!  If you do, please
make sure that Mark Stein at Sun gets a copy so we can add it to the
master test distribution.

Still to come are yellow pages tests.
