1.   INCORRECTLY FORMATTED REFERENCES

The program fixref searches all the man pages and fixes common errors
in the formatting of man page references.  See fixref.sed for what
things are fixed.  The fixed pages are put into a subdirectory `fixref'
of each man[1-8] directory.  To run this program, execute:

	rm -f fixref.out
	make fixref.out

Diffs of each man page changed are written to fixref.out.  This output
should be reviewed before moving the pages from the fixref
subdirectories.  When the fixref subdirectories are empty or only contain
pages that are bogus, remove them.


2.  MAN PAGE REFERENCES

A list of all man pages referenced in other man pages can be created by
executing:

	rm -f manxref
	make manxref

When the make is done, the list will be in the file "manxref".
Sometimes text appears to be a man page reference when it actually isn't.
The final invocation of sed in mkmanxref is meant for filtering these out.


3. BAD SUBSECTION REFERENCES

A list of all lower case subsection references can be obtained by executing:
	
	rm -f badsubsect
	make badsubsect

When the make is done, the list will be in the file "badsubsect".


4.  BAD CROSS REFERENCES

A list of all references without man pages can be made by executing:

	rm -f badxref
	make badxref


When the make is done, the list will be in the file "badxref".

5.  BAD NAME SECTION

The ptx tools require that the NAME section contain a list of comma 
separated words (with a space after the comma) followed by a ``\-''.  
A list of all man pages that don't have this can be obtained by executing:

	rm -f badnamesec
	make badnamesec

When the make is done, the list will be in the file "badnamesec".


6.  TABLE OF CONTENTS AND PERMUTED INDEX

The important program here is "tocrc".  It generates a table of
contents and a permuted index.  "tocrc" sorta works by default.  It
doesn't take long, either.  To make the table of contents and permuted
index, execute:

	make toc.in ptx.in >& err

When it's done, it leaves its results in this directory.  A list of any
subsections which "tocrc" did not capitalize will be in "err".  There's
a sed command at the top of "tocrc" which will need to be modified if
any are reported.  The files "toc1, toc2 ...", contain "troff" macros
for the table of contents.  They can be edited if the table of contents
has entries that are too big for a line.  To generate a table of
contents, "xroff" the file "toc.in".  This is a "troff" macro file for
the table of contents.  It sources the "toc[1-8]" files.  The number
register a is used to tell it which volume's table of contents to
generate: 0 for Vol 1A and 1 for Vol 1B.  If page numbering is
important, set the page number in this file with the ".pn" request.  A
target in the makefile exists to do the xroff for each volume, saving
the output in tocv1.out and tocv2.out:

	make tocv1.out tocv2.out

"tocrc" also generates a file called "ptxx" with "troff" macros for the
permuted index.  To generate a permuted index, "xroff" the file
"ptx.in".  There is a target in the makefile to do the xroff, saving the
output in ptx.out:

	make ptx.out

This macro file sources "ptxx".  If page numbering is
important, set the page number in this file with the ".pn" request.  
This file will probably be too big to edit unless you use emacs.  It
can be broken up with the "split" utility.

	split ptxx

creates the files "xaa, xab ...".  They can be reassembled with the
"cat" utility.

	cat xaa xab xac > ptxx

There is a target in the makefile that sends all three .out files to the
2700.  It is "print-all".
